The Event Based PSHA calculator computes and stores stochastic event sets and
the corresponding ground motion fields.

This calculator can also produce hazard curves and hazard maps exactly in the
same way as done using the Classical PSHA calculator.

The inset below shows an example of the list of results provided by the
\gls{acr:oqe} at the end of an event-based PSHA calculation:

\input{oqum/hazard/verbatim/output_event_based}

This list in the inset above contains a set of stochastic events (in green)
and their corresponding sets of ground motion fields (in red).

Exporting the outputs from the stochastic event set will produce, for each
realisation, a nrml file containing a collection of stochastic event sets.
Below is an example of the nrml file for a stochastic event set containing
only 2 ruptures:

\input{oqum/hazard/verbatim/output_ses}

The text in red shows the part which describes the id of the generated
stochastic event set and the investigation time covered.

The text in green emphasises the portion of the text used to describe a
rupture. The information provided describes entirely the geometry of the
rupture as well as its rupturing properties (e.g. rake, magnitude). The
rupture ID is a string that represents each rupture uniquely (including the
case where the same rupture is sampled multiple times). The exact format may
be subject to change from time-to-time; however, the ID will usually contain
information regarding the specific logic tree branch sample (realisation), the
stochastic event set counter, the ID of the source from which the rupture was
samples and a unique number indicating the rupture identifier within the
earthquake rupture forecast of the specific source.

Exporting the outputs from the gmfs will produce an xml file for each
realisation containing the corresponding ground motion fields. Below is an
example of a gmf collection nrml file containing one ground motion field:

\input{oqum/hazard/verbatim/output_gmf}

The `sourcegroups` output produces a csv file listing the tectonic region
types involved in the calculation and the effective number of ruptures
generated by each of them. An example of such a file is shown below.

\input{oqum/hazard/verbatim/output_sourcegroups}
